---
title: "OSS Settlement  \n  \nBusiness Requirements Document"
---

Introduction
============

This document describes the requirements for changes to the functionality of the
OSS Mojaloop switch to support:

1.  The immediate requirement for Mowali of being able to settle according to
    different timetables for different currencies.

2.  The requirement for TIPS to be able to settle gross via a pooled account.

3.  The requirement for TIPS to use the settlement process for interchange fees.

4.  The requirement for Mojaloop to support the evolving Settlement API

References
==========

The following external references are used in this document:

| Reference | Document |
| :--- | :--- |
| <sup>1</sup> | [Open API for FSP Interoperability Specification](http://mojaloop.io/mojaloop-specification/documents/API%20Definition%20v1.0.html) |
| <sup>2</sup> | [Settlement API Interface Definition](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)|
| <sup>3</sup> | [Current administration API definition](https://mojaloop.io/documentation/api/central-ledger-api-specification.html)|
| | |

Versions
========

| Version | Description      | Author           | Date       | Changes tracked |
|:---------|:------------------|:------------------|:------------|:-----------------|
| 1.0     | Baseline version | Michael Richards | 2 Dec 2019 | No              |
|         |                  |                  |            |                 |

Definition of terms
===================

Settlement model
----------------

A settlement model defines a kind of settlement within the scheme. Settlement
models can be defined by scheme administrators, and have the following
characteristics:

1.  They can support settlement either gross or net settlements. If gross, then
    a settlement is executed after each transfer is completed. If net, a group
    of transfers is settled together.

2.  They can support either multilateral or bilateral settlements. If
    settlements are multilateral, each participant settles with the scheme for
    the net of its transfers which are included in the settlement. If they are
    multilateral, each participant settles separately with each of the other
    participants and the scheme is not a party to the settlement.

3.  They can support either deferred or immediate settlements. If settlements
    are immediate, they are actioned immediately they are completed. If they are
    deferred, they are actioned after a period of delay.

4.  They can support continuous or discontinuous settlements. Discontinuous
    settlements require a formal approval from a resource outside the system to
    confirm that they have been completed. Continuous settlements can be
    approved from within the switch, provided that the criteria for approval are
    met.

5.  They can require liquidity support or not.

Ledger account type
-------------------

A ledger account type defines a type of internal account. Current values are:

1.  POSITION. Accounts of this type are used for provisioning transfers

2.  SETTLEMENT. Accounts of this type are intended to be reflections of
    Settlement Accounts held at the Settlement Bank

3.  HUB_RECONCILIATION. Each implementation of the switch has one account of
    this type for each currency supported by the switch, owned by the virtual
    DFSP which represents the Hub in the implementation. The account is used
    during FUNDS IN/OUT operations to represent movements in participants’
    SETTLEMENT accounts.

4.  HUB_MULTILATERAL_SETTLEMENT. Each implementation of the switch has one
    account of this type for each currency supported by the switch, owned by the
    virtual DFSP which represents the Hub in the implementation. This account
    type is used to record counterparty information for net amounts paid to or
    from participants as part of settlements. Entries in this account represent
    balancing values corresponding with the net value in a participant’s
    POSITION account for a given settlement.

5.  HUB_FEE. Accounts of this type represent accounts into which fees are
    collected, or from which they are disbursed. (Not implemented)

Ledger entry type
-----------------

A ledger entry type categorises the type of funds which are the content of a
transfer and which are due to or from a participant as a consequence of that
transfer. The current values are:

1.  PRINCIPLE_VALUE. This designates the funds moved as the content of a
    transfer in the Interoperability API Specification sense of that term (i.e.
    the **amount.amount** item in the **Transaction** object described in
    [Section 7.4.17](https://mojaloop.io/mojaloop-specification/documents/API%20Definition%20v1.0.html#7317-ilpcondition) of the Interoperability API specification<sub>[1](https://mojaloop.io/mojaloop-specification/documents/API%20Definition%20v1.0.html)</sup>.) It should be
    spelt “principal.”

2.  INTERCHANGE_FEE. This designates fees paid between participants in the
    system. (Not implemented)

3.  HUB_FEE. This designates fees paid between participants and the scheme. (Not
    implemented)

4.  POSITION_DEPOSIT. This is used to designate funds transfers which are
    intended to increase the value of the position in a particular ledger
    account. (Not implemented)

5.  POSITION_WITHDRAWAL. This is used to designate funds transfers which are
    intended to reduce the value of the position in a particular ledger account.
    (Not implemented)

6.  SETTLEMENT_NET_RECIPIENT. This is used to designate funds which a
    participant is owed by the counterparty as part of a settlement (in a
    multilateral settlement model, the counterparty will be the hub; in a
    bilateral settlement model, it will be another party.)

7.  SETTLEMENT_NET_SENDER. This is used to designate funds which a participant
    owes to the counterparty as part of a settlement (in a multilateral
    settlement model, the counterparty will be the hub; in a bilateral
    settlement model, it will be another party.)

8.  SETTLEMENT_NET_ZERO. This is used to generate formal records where a
    participant’s net position in a settlement is zero.

9.  RECORD_FUNDS_IN. This is used to record funds deposited by a participant to
    the SETTLEMENT account.

10. RECORD_FUNDS_OUT. This is used to record funds withdrawn by a participant
    from the SETTLEMENT account.

The last seven of these types relate to the internal structure of the switch and
should be neither visible to nor modifiable by a scheme. The first three fall
into a category which is expected to be extensible by the scheme. The table does
not currently have an indicator to mark this distinction, but one is proposed in
Section TODO.

Participant role types
----------------------

A participant role type defines the role that a particular participant is
playing in a given transaction. The current values of this table are:

1.  PAYER_DFSP. The participant is the debtor in a transfer.

2.  PAYEE_DFSP. The participant is a creditor in a transfer.

3.  HUB. The participant is representing the scheme, and may be either the
    creditor or the debtor in a transaction.

4.  DFSP_SETTLEMENT. The participant represents the settlement account of a
    participant in the scheme. It may be either the creditor or the debtor in a
    transaction. It is used during FUNDS IN/OUT operations. This is used for
    entries whose counterparty is an entry in the HUB account.

5.  DFSP_POSITION. The participant represents the position of a participant in
    the scheme. It may be either the creditor or the debtor in a transaction. It
    is used during the settlement process. This is used for entries whose
    counterparty is an entry in the HUB account.

Settlement states
-----------------

A settlement may be in a number of possible states. The states currently
supported are:

1.  PENDING_SETTLEMENT. A new settlement consisting of one or more settlement
    windows has been created. The net amounts due to or from each participant
    have been calculated and a report detailing these net amounts has been
    produced.

2.  PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED: all the calculated net amounts for the settlement
    have been converted into transfers between the creditor and debtor accounts.
    It is applied for each settlement entry and at settlement level, when all
    entries are recorded. This state is not applied to settlement windows.

3.  PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED: all the funds required for settlement have been
    reserved (debit amounts only.) It is applied for each settlement entry and
    at settlement level, when all entries are reserved.

4.  PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED: all the credit amounts required as part of the
    settlement have been committed. It is applied for each settlement entry and
    at settlement level, when all entries are committed.

5.  SETTLING: It is used only at settlement level if all accounts are not yet
    settled.

6.  SETTLED: This state is applied to settlement accounts in
    PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED state. When applied to even one account, the
    settlement will transit to SETTLING state. When all accounts in a window are
    SETTLED, the settlement window will change from PENDING_SETTLEMENT to
    SETTLED, while the settlement is still in SETTLING state. When all accounts
    from all windows are SETTLED, the settlement will be changed to SETTLED. It
    is possible for a settlement to change directly from PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED
    to SETTLED if all accounts are settled with one request.

7.  ABORTED: the settlement could not be completed and should be rolled back. It
    is currently only possible to abort a settlement if the state is one of:
    PENDING_SETTLEMENT, PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED or PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED. After
    having even one account in PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED state (even if the
    settlement as a whole is still in PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED), a request to abort
    the settlement is rejected. It should be noted that this prevents abortion
    in cases such as the default of a participant midway through the settlement
    process.

The present data model contains a foreign key to the enumeration table
containing settlement states from the
**settlementParticipantCurrencyStateChange** table, which maps onto a table
which contains a record for each participant/currency/account type combination.

Assumption: this means that the states appropriate to a settlement are also to
be applied to the individual elements of a settlement. As a consequence, the
descriptions should be taken to refer to individual settlement amounts as well
as to the settlement as a whole.

Settlement window states
------------------------

A settlement is made up of one or more settlement windows. Each settlement
window has a state associated with it. The current values of this table are as
follows:

1.  OPEN: the settlement window can have ledger movements added to it.

2.  CLOSED: the settlement window cannot have any additional ledger movements
    added to it. It is available for settlement.

3.  PENDING_SETTLEMENT: the settlement window’s contents have been included in a
    settlement request, but this request is a request for deferred settlement
    which has not yet been completed.

4.  SETTLED: the scheme has confirmed that the obligations incurred by
    participants as a consequence of the settlement to which this settlement
    window belongs have been met by those participants and the settlement is
    therefore complete.

5.  ABORTED: the settlement to which this settlement window belongs did not
    complete. The settlement window is available to be included in another
    settlement.

Transfer states
---------------

Each transaction which passes through the system can be assigned one of a fixed
number of states. The current values of this state are:

1.  RECEIVED_PREPARE: the switch has received the transaction request.

2.  RESERVED: the switch has reserved the funds required to cover the
    transaction.

3.  RECEIVED_FULFIL: the switch has received the fulfilment request, and the
    transaction has been assigned to a settlement window

4.  COMMITTED: the transaction has been committed.

5.  FAILED: the transaction has failed in some unspecified way and has been
    aborted. (Not implemented)

6.  RESERVED_TIMEOUT: the transaction has timed out while in the reserved state
    and has been aborted.

7.  RECEIVED_REJECT: the transaction has been rejected by the payee DFSP and
    should be aborted.

8.  ABORTED_REJECTED: the transaction has been aborted by the switch as a
    consequence of its having been rejected by the payee DFSP.

9.  RECEIVED_ERROR: the transaction was not received correctly by the payee DFSP
    and should be aborted.

10. ABORTED_ERROR: the transaction has been aborted by the switch as a
    consequence of its not having been received correctly.

11. EXPIRED_PREPARED: the transaction has expired during the prepare process and
    has been aborted.

12. EXPIRED_RESERVED: the transaction has timed out during the reservation
    process and has been aborted.

13. INVALID: the transaction has failed the switch’s internal validation process
    and has been aborted.

Transfers and transactions
--------------------------

Transfers define a movement of funds in the system. There is a table in the
switch which has this name. Some entries in this table are the consequence of
external movements which are generated by scheme participants and processed by
the switch; others are internally generated by the switch (e.g. to record net
movements of funds associated with settlements.)

It may be a source of confusion that, although “transfers” is a term used e.g.
in the Interoperability API specification to designate the movement of funds
between participants, it is used as the name of a table in the switch which
stores other types of funds movement as well.

This document will therefore adopt the following convention:

-   “Transfers” refers to the content of instructions issued using the
    **/transfers** resource of the Interoperability API definition<sup>[1](http://mojaloop.io/mojaloop-specification/documents/API%20Definition%20v1.0.html)</sup>. (see [Section 6.7](http://mojaloop.io/mojaloop-specification/documents/API%20Definition%20v1.0.html#67-api-resource-transfers) of the Interoperability API definition<sup>[1](http://mojaloop.io/mojaloop-specification/documents/API%20Definition%20v1.0.html)</sup>.)

-   “Transactions” refers to all movements of funds which are tracked by the
    switch.

In scope and out of scope 
==========================

In scope
--------

The following functional items are in scope:

1.  Requesting a settlement by currency

2.  Requesting a settlement by currency and settlement model

Out of scope
------------

Business rules
==============

How do things happen now?
-------------------------

This section describes how the current settlement process works.

### Categorisation 

The process leading to settlement is initially defined by entries in the
*participantCurrency* table. This table holds a record for each combination of:

1.  Participant

2.  Currency

3.  Ledger account type (see Section 2.2 above.)

### Recording positions

Each entry in this table has a corresponding entry in the *participantPosition*
table. This table stores the current committed and reserved positions for each
of the combinations described above. Each change to the positions in this table
is documented by an entry in the *participantPositionChange* table, which refers
the change back to the *transfer* table and thence to the authoritative record
of transactions.

### Assigning transactions to settlement windows

As each transfer is fulfilled, a record is created for it in the
**transferFulfilment** table. This record contains a link to the currently open
settlement window.

Records may be created for transactions which are not transfers. Non-transfer
transactions have their ilpFulfilment set to 0.

The settlement API <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> contains a resource
(**closeSettlementWindow**) to allow an administrator to close a settlement
window and create a new one. The resource takes a settlement window ID as part
of the query string, together with a string describing the status to be assigned
and a string describing the reason for the change of status. In-line
documentation for the resource states: “If the settlementWindow is open, it can
be closed and a new window is created. If it is already closed, return an error
message. Returns the new settlement window.”

Settlement windows can only be passed a status of CLOSED using this resource.

### Initiating a settlement

The initiation of a settlement is initiated by making a call triggered by the
scheme making a **POST** to the **/settlements** resource in the settlement API.
The caller gives a reason for the settlement request. This is a synchronous
call, whose return is described in Section 4.1.5 below. Internally, the
initiation is marked by the creation of a record in the **settlement** table and
the association of a number of settlement window records in the
**settlementWindow** table with the settlement created. This says: I want this
settlement to contain these settlement windows. Each of the settlement windows
selected to form part of this settlement must have the status CLOSED or ABORTED.
When selected to form part of a settlement, the status of each window should be
changed to PENDING_SETTLEMENT. The status of the settlement itself should also
be set to PENDING_SETTLEMENT.

### Calculating the content of a settlement

When a settlement has been requested and the windows which it will contain have
been selected, the switch produces an aggregation of the content of the proposed
settlement at the following levels:

1.  Settlement window (from **settlementWindow**)

2.  Participant (from **participantCurrency**)

3.  Currency (from **participantCurrency**)

4.  Account type (from **participantCurrency**)

5.  Participant role type (from **transferParticipant**)

6.  Ledger entry type (from **transferParticipant**)

This query can be provisioned from the database FK links from **settlement** to
**settlementwindow**, to **transferFulfilment** (all fulfilled transfers), to
**transfer**, to **transferParticipant**. The amount is taken from the
**transferParticipant** table. Correct!

Only transfers are included in a settlement. This is implied by the first
aggregation criterion above (Settlement window) and the fact that only transfers
are assigned to the current OPEN window when a **transferFulfilment** record is
created. All COMMITTED transactions should have an entry in the
**transferFulfilment** table.

The results of this query are used to construct a number of records in the
**settlementParticipantCurrency** table, representing the net amount due to or
from each participant and currency in the settlement as a consequence of the
settlement. For a given settlement, these records are segmented by: Correct!

1.  Participant (from **participantCurrency**)

2.  Currency (from **participantCurrency**)

3.  Account type (from **participantCurrency)**

This report is used as the basis of the information returned from the initial
**POST** to the **/createSettlement** resource of the settlement API (see
Section 4.1.4 above.)

Bilateral settlements are not currently implemented.

### Creating position records for the settlement

A record is inserted in the **transfer** table for each net amount calculated in
the previous step when the settlement account transitions from
PENDING_SETTLEMENT to PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED. Please note that PS stands for
PENDING_SETTLEMENT. Each of these records will have the account type SETTLEMENT.
The ledger entry type will be SETTLEMENT_NET_SENDER, SETTLEMENT_NET_RECIPIENT or
SETTLEMENT_NET_ZERO depending on whether the participant owes money to the
scheme, is owed money by the scheme or is neutral in the settlement,
respectively. The transfer participant type is HUB for the Hub participant and
DFSP_POSITION for the DFSP participant. The account type is imposed by the
participant currency – for the Hub participant it is the
HUB_MULTILATERAL_SETTLEMENT and for the DFSP participant it is the POSITION
account. This enables the switch to reset the participant’s position when the
window enters the PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED state.

### Progress of the settlement

As the scheme verifies that participants have settled the amounts due from them,
the scheme administrator can update the switch with this information.

#### Updating the status of settlement windows

Three methods of performing this update are supported. Each of these methods is
discussed in more detail below.

##### **updateSettlementById**

An administrator may issue a **PUT** to the **/updateSettlementById** resource
on the settlement API, giving the settlement ID of the settlement they wish to
update as part of the query (e.g. **PUT
/updateSettlementById/settlements/123.**) The content of the request is as
follows:

1.  A state to be assigned to the participants required. The state is
    constrained to be either ABORTED or INVALID

2.  A reason for the change of state.

3.  An external reference for the change.

4.  An array of participants to which the status is to be applied. The following
    information is given for each participant:

    1.  The ID of the participant. This is the internal Mojaloop ID of the
        participant.

    2.  An array of *accounts*. The content of each account is as follows:

        1.  An ID. The description characterises this as the participant’s
            currency ID QUESTION: Is this correct? It is an integer, where a
            VARCHAR(3) would be expected.

        2.  A reason. A string which presumably can contain anything.

        3.  The state of the settlement for the account. This is not constrained
            by an enum, but is a simple string. It is not clear how this status
            relates to the overall state given in Item 1 above.

        4.  An external reference for the change in state.

>   A call to this API resource may contain *either* items 1-3 above *or* an
>   array of accounts as specified in item 4 above, but not both. If it contains
>   items 1-3 above, then all the items must be present. If these rules are
>   breached, then the switch will reject the request.

##### **updateSettlementBySettlementParticipant**

An administrator may issue a **PUT** to the
**/updateSettlementBySettlementParticipant** resource on the settlement API,
giving the settlement ID and the participant ID of the parts of the settlement
they wish to update as part of the query (e.g. **PUT
/updateSettlementByParticipant/settlements/123/participants/56789.**) The
content of the request is as follows:

1.  An array of state changes, whose content is as follows:

    1.  The currency ID whose status is to be changed. This is an integer, where
        a VARCHAR(3) would be expected.

    2.  A reason for the state change.

    3.  The state requested. This is a string, where an enumeration would be
        expected.

    4.  An external reference for the change in state.

Note that this is an array with the same structure as that described in item 4
of Section 5.1.7.1 above, although it is defined separately in the API
definition.

##### **updateSettlementBySettlementParticipantAccount**

An administrator may issue a **PUT** to the
**/updateSettlementBySettlementParticipantAccount** resource on the settlement
API, giving the settlement ID, the participant ID and the account ID of the part
of the settlement they wish to update as part of the query (e.g. **PUT
/updateSettlementByParticipant/settlements/123/participants/56789/accounts/1.**)
The content of the request is as follows:

1.  The state requested. This is a string, where an enumeration would be
    expected.

2.  A reason. A string which presumably can contain anything.

3.  An external reference for the change in state.

Note that this is a structure with most of the same members as the structure
defined in Item 1 of Section 5.1.7.2 above, although the items appear in a
different order.

#### How changes in settlement window state are processed

The action taken in response to these calls depends on the status assigned to
the account. In any case, a record is created in the
**settlementParticipantCurrencyStateChange** table, giving the state identifier,
the reason and an external reference for the change.

There is a sequence of steps defined for a settlement. Each step must be
followed in order, and no steps may be omitted. The sequence of steps is
hard-coded into the application and is as follows:

1.  PENDING_SETTLEMENT

2.  PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED

3.  PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED

4.  PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED

5.  SETTLED

A settlement can be aborted provided no account in the settlement has reached a
status of PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED.

The following actions are taken on each change of status:

##### PENDING_SETTLEMENT to PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED

A record is generated in the **transfer** table to record the change in state.
The parties to this transfer are the POSITION account type and the
HUB_MULTILATERAL_SETTLEMENT type. If the participant account is a net creditor
for the settlement, then the ledger entry type will be set to
SETTLEMENT_NET_RECIPIENT. If the participant account is a net debtor for the
settlement, then the ledger entry type will be set to SETTLEMENT_NET_SENDER. If
the participant account is neutral for the settlement, then the ledger entry
type will be set to SETTLEMENT_NET_ZERO.

A record is also created in the **transferstatechange** table with the
RECEIVED_PREPARE state, which means that no positions have been changed.

When the last participating account is changed to PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED, then
the settlement’s status is also changed to PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED.

If an administrator attempts to change an account’s state to
PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED and either the settlement’s state or the settlement
account’s state is not PENDING_SETTLEMENT or PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED, then the
request will be rejected.

##### PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED to PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED

A new record is created in the **transferstatechange** table for the transfer
that was created in section 5.1.7.2 above. This record will have a status of
RESERVED. If the participant is a net creditor as a result of the settlement,
then a record will also be created in the participantPositionChange table if the
account being reserved is for a net creditor in the settlement, as defined in
Section 5.1.7.2 above. The Net Debit Cap is checked at this point, and if the
current position exceeds the Net Debit Cap, then the Net Debit Cap is
automatically adjusted by the amount of the net credit due to the account as
part of the settlement and the participant is sent a notification of the new Net
Debit Cap value and its currency.

When the last participating account is changed to PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED, then
the settlement’s status is also changed to PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED.

If an administrator attempts to change an account’s state to
PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED and either the settlement’s state or the settlement
account’s state is not PS_TRANSFERS_RECORDED or PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED, then the
request will be rejected.

##### PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED to PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED

A new record is created in the **transferstatechange** table for the transfer
that was created in section 5.1.7.2 above. This record will have a status of
COMMITTED. If the participant is a net debtor as a result of the settlement,
then a record will also be created in the participantPositionChange table if the
account being reserved is for a net debtor in the settlement, as defined in
Section 5.1.7.2 above.

When the last participating account is changed to PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED, then
the settlement’s status is also changed to PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED.

If an administrator attempts to change an account’s state to
PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED and either the settlement’s state or the settlement
account’s state is not to PS_TRANSFERS_RESERVED or PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED, then
the request will be rejected.

##### PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED to SETTLED

When the first account is changed to a status of SETTLED, the settlement’s state
is changed to SETTLING.

When the last participating account is changed to SETTLED, then the settlement’s
status is also changed to SETTLED.

If an administrator attempts to change an account’s state to SETTLED and either
the settlement’s state or the settlement account’s state is not to
PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED or SETTLED, then the request will be rejected.

### Aborting the settlement

If there is any failure in the scheme’s process for recovering the amounts due
from participants in a settlement, the scheme can update the switch with this
information by issuing a **PUT** to the **/updateSettlementById** resource of
the settlement API and setting the **state** value of the content of the message
to ABORTED. A **PUT** call on the **/updateSettlementById** resource is the only
method which may be used for ABORTING a settlement. If any account information
is given in the call, then neither the **state** nor the **reason** nor the
**externalReference** fields may be set. if the **state** value is set at the
top level of the call, then the **reason** field must also be set, and the
request will be rejected if any account information is given in the call.

If an attempt is made to abort a settlement, and any of the accounts in the
settlement have the status PS_TRANSFERS_COMMITTED or SETTLED, then the request
will be rejected.

When a call is received, a new record is created in the
**settlementParticipantCurrencyStateChange** table, and is given the appropriate
status based on the status reported by the caller. Depending on the update that
was received, this may also require the status of the transaction and that of
the participant position to be updated. No, it is done at settlement level for
the entire settlement and all entries in settlementParticipantCurrency are
affected.

Note: if the settlement is bilateral, then there is no obvious reason to abort
the entire settlement if one interchange fails. We should think about this use
case and how we would want to represent it. This document does not consider this
use case.

Aborting a settlement comprises the following steps:

1.  The status of the transfers created in Section 5.1.6 above should be changed
    to ABORTED.

2.  A new record is added to the **settlementParticipantCurrencyStateChange**
    table for each of the participant records in the settlement. This record has
    a status of ABORTED, and the **currentStateChangeId** column in the
    **settlementParticipantCurrency** table for that participant record is
    changed to point to this new record.

3.  A new record is added to the **settlementWindowStateChange** table for each
    settlement window in the settlement. This record has a status of ABORTED,
    and the **currentStateChangeId** column in the settlementWindow table for
    that window is changed to point to this new record.

4.  A new record is added to the **settlementStateChange** table for the
    settlement. This record has a status of ABORTED, and the
    **currentStateChangeId** column in the **settlement** table is changed to
    point to this new record.

5.  If positions have been reserved for net creditors as a result of the
    settlement (see Section 5.1.7.3 above,) then a balancing entry will be
    created in the **participantPositionChange** table to reverse the
    reservation of funds. This action does not at present reverse any change to
    the account’s Net Debit Cap that may have been made as a consequence of this
    reservation.

6.  Any records created in the **transfers** table (see Section 5.1.7.2 above)
    will have their state changed in two steps by adding records to the
    **transferStateChange** table. The first step will change the transfer state
    to REJECTED. The second step will change the state to ABORTED.

Question: should there be/is there a time-out after which a settlement will be
aborted if it has not completed? If there is, how is it set? No, there isn’t
timeout on a settlement level. But when transfers are prepared (for
PS_TRANSFERS_RECORED) expiration is set on a transfer level. Its value is
controlled by a Config.TRANSFER_VALIDITY_SECONDS, which currently defaults to
432000 seconds, which equals 5 days. It is big enough to avoid expiration.
Still, if that happens, it would leave the data in an unrecoverable by the API
state. This is very good point and should be certainly addressed with the next
increment!

Recording the deposit of funds
------------------------------

As participants are informed of their liabilities under the settlement, it is
expected that they will deposit funds in their settlement account to cover those
liabilities. These activities are recorded via the central ledger administration
interface resource **recordFundsIn**.

This action is called through a POST to the administration interface, giving the
name of the participant and the account to be credited in the form POST
/participants/{participantName}/accounts/{accountId} (e.g. **POST
/participants/myDfsp/accounts/1234**) The content of this message is as follows.

1.  transferId: a UUID to be used to identify the transfer in the switch.

2.  externalReference: a reference used to identify the transfer for the
    administrator

3.  action: this should be set to “recordFundsIn” for recording funds in.

4.  reason: the reason why the transfer is being made.

5.  amount: the amount of the transfer.

    1.  amount: the actual amount being transferred

    2.  currency: the ISO 4217 code of the currency of the deposit.

6.  extensionList: a series of key/value pairs which are used to carry
    additional information

When an administrator records that a participant has deposited funds to an
account, the amount deposited is recorded in an entry in the **transfer** table.
The parties to the transfer are recorded by entries in the
**transferParticipant** table, with a ledger account type of the type requested
in the POST for the participant and HUB_RECONCILIATION for the balancing entry.
For deposits, the participant account will be the creditor and the
HUB_RECONCILIATION account the debtor. The application will currently reject
requests to this interface which do not have a ledger account type of
SETTLEMENT.

A deposit goes through the following changes of state:

1.  A record is created for the transfer in the **transferStateChange** table
    with a state of RECEIVED_PREPARE.

2.  Next, a record is created in the **transferStateChange** table with the
    state RESERVED. This also creates a record in the
    **participantPositionChange** table to record the reservation of funds in
    the HUB_RECONCILIATION account, and the **participantPosition** table’s
    value for that account is updated.

3.  Finally, a record is created in the **transferStateChange** table with the
    state COMMITTED. After this act, records are created in the
    **participantPositionChange** table for the creditor account to record the
    completion of the deposit, and the appropriate record in the
    **participantPosition** table has its balance updated.

These changes of state are simply chained together in sequence. There is no
interval or trigger between the steps.

This activity has no direct effect on the settlement process or on the Net Debit
Cap.

Recording the withdrawal of funds
---------------------------------

At various times, participants may wish to withdraw funds from their settlement
accounts: for instance, if they are long-term net beneficiaries of transfers and
are building up a surplus of liquidity. These activities are recorded via a
two-phase process. In the first phase, the funds for the proposed withdrawal are
reserved via the central ledger administration interface resource
**recordFundsOutPrepareReserve**. In the second phase, the withdrawal is
committed via the **recprdFundsOutCommit** resource or aborted through the
**recordFundsOutAbort** resource.

These activities are defined below.

### **recordFundsOutPrepareReserve**

This action is called through a POST to the administration interface, giving the
name of the participant and the account to be credited (e.g. **POST
/participants/myDfsp/accounts/1234**) The content of this message is as follows.

1.  transferId: a UUID to be used to identify the transfer in the switch.

2.  externalReference: a reference used to identify the transfer for the
    administrator

3.  action: this should be set to “recordFundsOutPrepareReserve” for recording
    funds withdrawals.

4.  reason: the reason why the transfer is being made.

5.  amount: the amount of the transfer.

    1.  amount: the actual amount being transferred

    2.  currency: the ISO 4217 code of the currency of the deposit.

6.  extensionList: a series of key/value pairs which are used to carry
    additional information

When an administrator records that a participant has requested the withdrawal of
funds from an account, the amount to be withdrawn is recorded in an entry in the
**transfer** table. The parties to the transfer are recorded by entries in the
**transferParticipant** table, with a ledger account type of the type requested
in the POST for the participant and HUB_RECONCILIATION for the balancing entry.
For withdrawals, the participant account will be the debtor and the
HUB_RECONCILIATION account the creditor. The application will currently reject
requests to this interface which do not have a ledger account type of
SETTLEMENT.

Reservation of a withdrawal goes through the following changes of state:

1.  A record is created for the transfer in the **transferStateChange** table
    with a state of RECEIVED_PREPARE.

2.  Next, a record is created in the **transferStateChange** table with the
    state RESERVED. This also creates a record in the
    **participantPositionChange** table to record the reservation of funds in
    the participant’s settlement account, and the **participantPosition**
    table’s value for that account is updated.

These changes of state are simply chained together in sequence. There is no
interval or trigger between the steps.**recordFundsOutCommit**

This action is called through a POST to the administration interface, giving the
name of the participant and the account to be credited (e.g. **POST
/participants/myDfsp/accounts/1234**) The content of this message is as follows.

1.  transferId: a UUID to be used to tie the commit to the preceding reservation
    in the switch.

2.  externalReference: a reference used to identify the transfer for the
    administrator

3.  action: this should be set to “recordFundsOutCommit” for recording funds
    commitments.

4.  reason: the reason why the transfer is being made.

5.  amount: the amount of the transfer.

    1.  amount: the actual amount being transferred

    2.  currency: the ISO 4217 code of the currency of the deposit.

6.  extensionList: a series of key/value pairs which are used to carry
    additional information

When an administrator records that a participant wants to commit the withdrawal
of funds from an account, the original entry in the **transfer** table is
identified. The parties to the transfer are recorded by entries in the
**transferParticipant** table, with a ledger account type of the type requested
in the POST for the participant and HUB_RECONCILIATION for the balancing entry.
For withdrawals, the participant account will be the debtor and the
HUB_RECONCILIATION account the creditor. The application will currently reject
requests to this interface which do not have a ledger account type of
SETTLEMENT.

Commitment of a withdrawal goes through the following changes of state: a record
is created in the **transferStateChange** table with the state COMMITTED. After
this act, records are created in the **participantPositionChange** table for the
creditor account to record the completion of the deposit, and the appropriate
record in the **participantPosition** table has its balance updated. These
changes of state are simply chained together in sequence. There is no interval
or trigger between the steps.

This activity has no direct effect on the settlement process or on the Net Debit
Cap.

Proposed enhancements
=====================

This section describes the enhancements to the existing OSS settlement process
(described in Section 4.1 above) which are proposed. Each enhancement is shown
in a separate section and, where there are dependencies between enhancements,
these are listed in the enhancement’s description.

Request settlement by currency [EPIC]
-------------------------------------

The following changes are required to support settling separately for different
currencies.

### Database changes

The following changes are required to support multi-currency settlement.

#### Addition of a settlementWindowContent table [Story \#1]

A new table will be added to the database. The name of this table will be
**settlementWindowContent**. The table will contain an entry for each item of
content in a given settlement window, broken down by ledger account type and
currency. The full column structure of the table is as follows:

| **Column name**                         | **Description**                                   | **Attributes**                                                                        |
|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **settlementWindowContentId**           | Auto-generated key for the record.                | BIGINT(20). Unsigned, not null, primary key, autoincrement                            |
| **settlementWindowId**                  | The settlement window that the record belongs to. | BIGINT(20). Unsigned, not null. Foreign Key to **settlementWindow**                   |
| **ledgerAccountTypeId**                 | The ledger account that the record refers to.     | INT(10). Unsigned, not null. Foreign key to **ledgerAccountType**                     |
| **currencyId**                          | The currency that the record refers to.           | VARCHAR(3). Not null. Foreign key to **currency**.                                    |
| **createdDate**                         | The date and time when the record was created.    | DATETIME. Not null. Defaults to CURRENT_TIMESTAMP.                                    |
| **currentStateChangeId**                | The current state of this entry.                  | BIGINT(20). Unsigned. Foreign key to **settlementWindowContentStateChange**           |

 

#### Addition of a settlementWindowContentStateChange table [Story \#2]

A new table will be added to the database. The name of this table will be
**settlementWindowContentStateChange**. The table will track changes to the
status of entries in the **settlementWindowContent** table. The full column
structure of the table is as follows:

| **Column name**                          | **Description**                                                     | **Attributes**                                                             |
|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **settlementWindowContentStateChangeId** | Auto-generated key for the record.                                  | BIGINT(20). Unsigned, not null, primary key, autoincrement                 |
| **settlementWindowContentId**            | The settlement window content record whose status is being tracked. | BIGINT(20). Unsigned, not null. Foreign Key to **settlementWindowContent** |
| **settlementWindowStateId**              | The record’s status.                                                | VARCHAR(50). Not null. Foreign key to **settlementWindowState**            |
| **reason**                               | An optional field giving the reason for the state being set.        | VARCHAR(512).                                                              |
| **createdDate**                          | The date and time when the record was created                       | DATETIME. Not null. Defaults to CURRENT_TIMESTAMP                          |

 

#### Changes to the settlementTransferParticipant table [Story \#3]

The name of the **settlementTransferParticipant** table should be changed to
**settlementContentAggregation**.

The column structure of the **settlementContentAggregation** table should be
modified as follows:

1.  Remove the following foreign keys from the table:
    1.  settlementtransferparticipant_settlementid_foreign
    2.  settlementtransferparticipant_settlementwindowid_foreign
2.  Remove the following columns from the table:
    1.  settlementId
    2.  settlementWindowId
3.  Add the following column to the table:
    1.  Column name: **settlementWindowContentId**
    2.  Attributes: BIGINT(20), unsigned, not null
4.  Add the following foreign key to the table:
    1.  Name: settlementContentAggregation_settlementwindowcontent_foreign
    2.  Child column **settlementWindowContentId**
    3.  Refers to table: **settlementWindowContent**
    4.  Refers to column: **settlementWindowContentId**

All database scripts which use the **settlementTransferParticipant** table will
be changed to accommodate the new name and structure of the table. [Story \#8]

Queries to filter the records in the **settlementContentAggregation** table
required for a settlement in a particular currency will need to join across from
that table to the **participantCurrency** table using the
**participantCurrencyId** column to ascertain the currency to which a particular
row refers. The **currencyId** column is held in the **participantCurrency**
table. [Story \#9]

#### Add structures relating to settlement models [Story \#4]

In order to support the specification of settlement models, which will include
currencies, the database changes specified in Section 6.2.1.1 below should be
added to the database.

Settlement models describing the settlement types required for a given
implementation will be developed and tested.**[Story \#4a]**

#### Change to settlement table [Story \#5]

The **settlement** table in the central ledger database needs to be modified to
add a *settlementModel* column. This column should have the following
characteristics:

- The column should be required (NOT NULL) and unsigned.
- The column’s data type should be integer(10)
- The column should be defined as a foreign key reference to the
*settlementModelId* field of the **settlementModel** table.

When this change is applied to an existing database, a settlement model to
describe the default settlement should be created. The settlementCurrencyId
column in this model should be left blank (= all currencies.) The
settlementModel column in all existing records in the settlement table should be
set to point to this model’s ID. A script to apply this change should be
created, tested and stored in the repository.

### Changes to processing

The following changes to the processing code are required to support
multi-currency settlement.

#### Change to code supporting closeSettlementWindow resource

The existing API <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> provides a single function
(**closeSettlementWindow**) to manage settlement windows. This function allows
its user to select a settlement window by ID number and to input a new status
for the window and a reason for that status.

When a settlement window is closed, the code supporting this activity should
perform two functions, as follows. These functions should be performed in the
background and without impacting system performance.

##### Generate records in the settlementWindowContent table [Story \#1095]

The code should generate a record in the **settlementWindowContent** table for
each ledger entry type/currency combination found in the transfers in the
settlement window. This information can be obtained from the following query:
```
SELECT DISTINCT
  @mySettlementWindowId, pc.ledgerAccountTypeId, pc.currencyId
FROM transferFulfilment tf
INNER JOIN transferParticipant tp
  ON tp.transferId = tf.transferId
INNER JOIN participantCurrency pc 
  ON pc.participantCurrencyId = tp.participantCurrencyId
WHERE tf.settlementWindowId = @mySettlementWindowId;
```

##### Generate records in the settlementContentAggregation table [Story \#1095]

The code should calculate the aggregate values for all transfers which form part
of that settlement window and store them in the **settlementContentAggregation**
table. Aggregates should be produced for the following segmentation:

1.  Participant
2.  Currency
3.  Ledger account type
4.  Participant role type
5.  Ledger entry type

The following query will perform this function for a given settlement window:

```
INSERT INTO settlementContentAggregation
  (settlementWindowContentId, participantCurrencyId, 
  transferParticipantRoleTypeId, ledgerEntryTypeId, amount)
SELECT swc.settlementWindowContentId, pc.participantCurrencyId,
  tp.transferParticipantRoleTypeId, tp.ledgerEntryTypeId, SUM(tp.amount)
FROM transferFulfilment tf
INNER JOIN transferParticipant tp
  ON tf.transferId = tp.transferId
INNER JOIN participantCurrency pc 
  ON pc.participantCurrencyId = tp.participantCurrencyId
INNER JOIN settlementWindowContent swc
  ON swc.settlementWindowId = tf.settlementWindowId
  AND swc.ledgerAccountTypeId = pc.ledgerAccountTypeId
  AND swc.currencyId = pc.currencyId
WHERE tf.settlementWindowId = @mySettlementWindowId
GROUP BY swc.settlementWindowContentId, pc.participantCurrencyId, 
   tp.transferParticipantRoleTypeId, tp.ledgerEntryTypeId;
```

#### createSettlement

The parameters for the **createSettlement** resource should be extended to
include the settlement model for which the settlement is required.

When the settlement is created, the settlement model for which the settlement is
required should be added to the new row in the **settlement** table. [Story \#1097]

When a settlement is requested, the switch should check that the settlement
model for which settlement is being requested requires NET settlement and not
GROSS settlement. If the requested settlement model requires GROSS settlement,
then the request should be rejected with an error.

The verification procedures associated with the **createSettlement** resource
should be changed to check that some of the settlement windows associated with
the proposed settlement contain entries for the settlement model requested. If
there are no entries for the settlement model requested for any of the
settlement windows requested, then an error should be returned and the
settlement request rejected. [Story \#1096]

#### Updating the progress of a settlement

When the status for a settlement participant is changed to SETTLED, this will result in
changes to the status of all the records in the **settlementContentAggregation**
table for the given participant, identified by the compound key: settlementId + participantCurrencyId.

[Story \#16]

The code should then check to see if, as a result of the updates to the records
in **settlementContentAggregation**, all records for a given combination of
settlement window, ledger account type and currency have the same status. If
they have, then the appropriate record in the **settlementWindowContent** table
should be updated to have that status.

The code should then check to see if all records in the
**settlementWindowContent** table for a given settlement window have the same
status. If they have, then the appropriate record in the **settlementWindow**

Support continuous gross settlement
-----------------------------------

Continuous Gross Settlement is a settlement model in which each transaction is
settled as soon as it is fulfilled. The following changes are required to
implement this change.

### Database changes

The database changes shown in Section 8 below should be implemented. These can
be summarised as follows:

#### Changes to support the settlement model

A number of new tables are required to define a settlement model and to store
the enumerations for its definition types. This comprises the following tables
in the ERD:

-   settlementDelay

-   settlementInterchange

-   settlementModel

In addition, the **settlementmodel** table has foreign keys to two existing
tables, as follows:

1.  A foreign key to the **currency** table to enable the settlement model to
    settle only scheme accounts in a particular currency. If this entry is
    blank, this should be interpreted as saying that the settlement model
    settles all currencies that are not specified as being settled by other
    settlement models for the same account type.

2.  A foreign key to the **ledgerAccountType** table. This specifies that the
    settlement model settles accounts of this type.

#### Changes to the **ledgeraccounttype** table

The current **ledgeraccounttype** table stores a number of entries for account
types which should not be used for settlements – for instance,
HUB_MULTILATERAL_SETTLEMENT. A column should therefore be added to the
**ledgeraccounttype** table to indicate whether the account type can be attached
to a settlement model or not. This column is called **settleable**, and is
specified as a Boolean value, NOT NULL and with a default of FALSE.

Of the existing ledger account types, PRINCIPAL_VALUE, INTERCHANGE_FEE and
HUB_FEE should be marked as capable of being attached to settlement models (this
value should be TRUE.) For all other ledger account types, the column should be
set to FALSE. If new ledger account types are added to this table via the
eventual settlement API, then they should have a value of TRUE.

#### Changes to the **ledgerentrytype** table

Implementation of the TIPS settlement model requires an explicit association
between ledger entry types and the account types in which they should appear.
Since each ledger entry type should only appear in a single account type, though
multiple ledger entry types may appear in a given account type, this is modelled
by including a foreign key reference to the **ledgeraccounttype** table as a
column in the **ledgerentrytype** table. It should be noted that this applies
only to ledger entry types which are associated with a settlement model, as
described in Section 6.2.1.2 above. The assignment of existing entries in the
database would be as follows:

| Ledger Entry Type | Ledger Account Type       |
|-------------------|---------------------------|
| PRINCIPAL_VALUE   | POSITION                  |
| INTERCHANGE_FEE   | INTERCHANGE_FEE           |
| HUB_FEE           | HUB_FEE                   |
|                   |                           |

#### Changes to the **settlement** table

The **settlement** table should have a column added to it to allow the
settlement model to be used in settling it to be specified. The column should be
called *settlementModelId*. It should have the same data type as the equivalent
field in the **settlementModel** table, and should be a foreign key into that
table. It should be defined as not null.

#### Changes to the **settlementWindow** table

As well as settlements, individual settlement windows will need to be assigned
to settlement models. The **settlementWindow** table should therefore have a
column added to it to allow the settlement model to be used in settling it to be
specified. The column should be called *settlementModelId*. It should have the
same data type as the equivalent field in the **settlementModel** table, and
should be a foreign key into that table. It should be defined as not null.

This concludes the list of schema changes required to support the TIPS
settlement models

### API changes

API Support for the settlement functionality required for TIPS will include the
following functions:

#### Close a settlement window

The existing API definition <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> supports a
**closeSettlementWindow** resource. This function allows its user to select a
settlement window by ID number and to input a new status for the window and a
reason for that status. This resource will retain its current signature, but the
code supporting it needs to change as follows.

When a settlement window is closed, the system should create a new settlement
window with the same settlement model as the newly closed settlement window, and
should make this the active window.

When a settlement window is closed, the code supporting this activity should
calculate the aggregate values for all transfers which form part of that
settlement window and store them in the **settlementTransferParticipant** table.
Aggregates should be produced for the following segmentation:

1.  Participant

2.  Currency

3.  Ledger account type

4.  Participant role type

5.  Ledger entry type

The following example code will produce the aggregations required for a given
settlement window (identified as \@MyWindow in the example):

SELECT

S.settlementId

, W.settlementWindowId

, P.participantCurrencyId

, P.transferParticipantRoleTypeId

, P.ledgerEntryTypeId

, SUM(P.amount)

, CURRENT_TIMESTAMP AS createdDate

FROM

settlementWindow W INNER JOIN settlementModel M ON W.settlementModelId =
M.idsettlementModel

INNER JOIN settlementSettlementWindow S ON W.settlementWindowId =
S.settlementWindowId

INNER JOIN ledgerAccountType L ON M.idsettlementModel = L.settlementModelId

INNER JOIN transferFulfilment F ON W.settlementWindowId = F.settlementWindowId

INNER JOIN transferParticipant P ON F.transferId = P.TransferId

INNER JOIN participantCurrency PC ON P.participantCurrencyId =
PC.participantCurrencyId

AND PC.ledgerAccountTypeId = L.ledgerAccountTypeId

WHERE

W.settlementWindowId = \@MyWindow

AND

(PC.currencyId = M.settlementcurrencyId OR M.settlementcurrencyId IS NULL)

GROUP BY

S.settlementId

, W.settlementWindowId

, P.participantCurrencyId

, P.transferParticipantRoleTypeId

, P.ledgerEntryTypeId;

#### Getting information about a settlement window

The existing API definition <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> supports a
**getSettlementWindowById** resource. This function allows its user to obtain
information about a settlement window by giving the ID that was returned when
the settlement window was created.

This call returns a **SettlementWindow** object. This object will need to be
extended to include the name of the settlement model to which the settlement
window belongs.

#### Getting information about settlement windows using parameters

The existing API definition <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> supports a
**getSettlementWindowsByParams** resource. This function allows its user to
obtain information about all settlement windows which meet the criteria
specified by the user. The following changes will need to be made to this call:

1.  The parameters supported by the call will need to be extended to allow a
    user to request settlement windows by settlement model. The user should be
    able to enter the name of a settlement model.

2.  This call returns an array of **SettlementWindow** objects. It is assumed
    that these objects will have been changed by the changes specified in
    Section 6.2.2.2 above, and that no further processing will be required for
    this call.

#### Requesting a settlement

The existing API definition <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> supports a **createSettlement**
resource. This function allows its user to request a settlement for a given set
of settlement windows, which are passed to the resource as parameters. The
following changes will need to be made to this call:

The parameters for the **createSettlement** resource are defined in the
**SettlementEventPayload** object. This object will need to have a parameter
added to specify the settlement model which is to be settled. The parameter
should be called *settlementModel*, and it should be a string. It should be
required.

The following validation should be performed on this parameter when the request
is received via the API:

1.  The content of the parameter is a case-insensitive match for an active entry
    in the **settlementmodel** table, ignoring whitespace.

2.  The *settlementtypeid* column in the record in the selected settlement model
    should not point to a record in the **settlementdelay** table whose
    *settlementDelayName* value is “IMMEDIATE”. If it does, the request should
    be rejected and an error message returned to the caller.

The id of the settlement model requested should be stored in the
settlementModelId column of the row created in the **settlement** table to
describe the settlement.

#### Returning the status of a settlement

The existing API definition <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> supports a **getSettlementById**
resource. This function allows its user to obtain information about a settlement
by giving the ID that was returned when the settlement was created.

Information about settlements is returned in a **Settlement** object. A
parameter should be added to the Settlement object to record the settlement
model which is being settled by the settlement.

The parameter should be called *settlementModel*, and it should be a string. It
should be required.

**Note**: when a settlement is requested, a reason is given; but the
**Settlement** object does not contain the reason. It might be worth including
this in the definition of the **Settlement** object.

#### Getting information about settlements using parameters

The existing API definition<sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> supports a
**getSettlementsByParams** resource. This function allows its user to obtain
information about all settlements by giving the ID that was returned when the
settlement was created. The following changes will need to be made to this call:

1.  This call returns an array of **Settlement** objects. It is assumed that
    these objects will have been changed by the changes specified in Section
    6.2.2.5 above, and that no further processing will be required for this
    call.

#### Getting information about a specific participant in a settlement

The existing API definition <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup>  supports a
**getSettlementBySettlementParticipant** resource. This function allows its user
to obtain information about a settlement which meet the criteria specified by
the user. The following changes will need to be made to this call:

1.  This call returns a **Settlement** object. It is assumed that this object
    will have been changed by the changes specified in Section 6.2.2.5 above,
    and that no further processing will be required for this call.

#### Updating a specific settlement

The existing API definition <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> supports an
**updateSettlementById** resource. This function allows its user to update
information about a settlement by giving the ID that was returned when the
settlement was created.

This call returns a **Settlement** object. It is assumed that this object will
have been changed by the changes specified in Section 6.2.2.5 above, and that no
further processing will be required for this call.

#### Updating a settlement for a specific participant

The existing API definition <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> supports an
**updateSettlementBySettlementParticipant** resource. This function allows its
user to update information about a settlement by giving the ID that was returned
when the settlement was created, and the participant whose information is to be
updated.

This call returns a **Settlement** object. It is assumed that this object will
have been changed by the changes specified in Section 6.2.2.5 above, and that no
further processing will be required for this call.

#### Updating a settlement for a specific participant and account

The existing API definition <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup> supports an
**updateSettlementBySettlementParticipantAccount** resource. This function
allows its user to update information about a settlement by giving the ID that
was returned when the settlement was created, and the participant and account
whose information is to be updated.

This call returns a **Settlement** object. It is assumed that this object will
have been changed by the changes specified in Section 6.2.2.5 above, and that no
further processing will be required for this call.

#### Recording the deposit of funds by a participant

The existing administration API <sup>[3](https://mojaloop.io/documentation/api/central-ledger-api-specification.html)</sup> contains functions to enable
an administrator to record a deposit made by a participant to an account. This
process is described in Section 5.2 above. The API should be changed to align it
with the structures used in the existing settlement API <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup>. In addition, the signature of the API should be extended to allow the
administrator to specify the account type that will be updated by the deposit.

#### Recording the withdrawal of funds by a participant

The existing administration API <sup>[3](https://mojaloop.io/documentation/api/central-ledger-api-specification.html)</sup> contains functions to enable
an administrator to record a withdrawal made by a participant from an account.
This process is described in Section 5.3 above. The API should be changed to
align it with the structures used in the existing settlement API <sup>[2](https://github.com/mojaloop/central-settlement/blob/master/src/interface/swagger.json)</sup>. In addition, the signature of the API should be extended to allow
the administrator to specify the account type that will be updated by the
withdrawal.

#### New resource: openSettlementWindow

In the current architecture, an instance of each settlement window is created
when the instance is set up, and subsequent settlement windows are created by
closing the current settlement window. In the new settlement management
structure, we will need the ability to create new settlement windows where no
predecessors exist: for instance, when an administrator decides to settle a
particular currency using a different settlement model.

### Processing changes

The following processing changes are required to implement the changes required
to support continuous gross settlement.

#### Attributing ledger entries to the correct ledger account type

When a ledger entry is created, it should be assigned to the ledger account type
specified in the *ledgeraccounttypeid* column of the row in the
**ledgerentrytype** table appropriate to the ledger entry type which is being
created.

For example: if a normal entry representing a transfer is being created, it will
have a ledger entry type of PRINCIPAL_VALUE. It should be assigned to the
POSITION account type (the default position at present.) This implies that the
match described in Section 6.2.1.3 above has been implemented.

Question: how does the switch decide whether or when to construct a record in
the **participantPositionChange** table? How would it be possible to select the
ledger account type to which the position refers?

Processing interchange fees 
----------------------------

In order to support the scheme model implemented by TIPS, we need to generate
and settle liabilities incurred as a consequence of making transfers between
particular types of customer. The general form of this rule is as follows:

-   If the transaction is a wallet-to-wallet P2P transaction, then the receiver
    DFSP pays the sender DFSP 0.6% of the amount of the transaction.

-   No interchange fees are levied for on-us transactions.

The business decisions around this requirement are:

1.  The definition of whether or not a payee account is a wallet will be
    returned by the payee DFSP as part of customer discovery. The mechanism by
    which this is implemented is outside the scope of this document.

2.  Interchange fees will be captured by the switch when the transfers which
    incur them are completed.

3.  Interchange fees will have the ledger entry type INTERCHANGE_FEE and will be
    recorded in accounts whose type is INTERCHANGE_FEE.

4.  Interchange fees will be settled multilaterally, net and deferred. It is
    expected that this settlement will take place monthly.

5.  Interchange fees do not require liability cover by participants.

This functionality will be implemented as a partial instance of a general
process for defining and executing rules, and for taking actions based on the
outcome of evaluation of a rule. For this particular case, we propose the
changes described in the following sections.

### Part 1: Run script for batch update of interchange fees when settlement window is closed.

Include stories to manage account type definition

### Part 2: Add reservation on prepare using script and modify fulfilment to fulfil all ledger types for which an entry has been made

### Evaluating a rule

The process of evaluating a rule is based on the following assumptions:

1.  There will be a standard form of rule evaluation with the following
    structure:

    1.  A transaction object will be passed as the parameter to the rule
        evaluation function.

    2.  The rule evaluation itself will use a complex if statement.

    3.  If the rule evaluates to TRUE, then an action should be executed as
        described in Section 6.3.2 below.

An example of a rule function to evaluate a TIPS interchange fee rule could be:

function evaluateInterchangeFee (transaction) {

if(

(transaction.payee.fspId.toLowerCase() != transaction.payer.fspId.toLowerCase())

&& (transaction.extensionList[“payerAccountType”].toLowerCase() ==
"Wallet".toLowerCase()

&& transaction.extensionList[“payeeAccountType”].toLowerCase() ==
"Wallet".toLowerCase())

&& (transaction.transactionType.scenario.toLowerCase() ==
"TRANSFER".toLowerCase()

&& transaction.transactionType.initiator.toLowerCase() == "PAYER".toLowerCase()

&& transaction.transactionType.initiatorType.toLowerCase() ==
"CONSUMER".toLowerCase())

) {

// Do some good stuff

};

};

### Taking action after evaluating a rule

If a rule evaluates to TRUE as described in Section 6.3.1 above, then
appropriate action should be taken. In the case of the immediate example of
interchange fees, the action taken should be to add two entries to the
participants’ interchange fee accounts, on recording the debit from the payee of
the interchange fee amount and the other recording the credit to the payer of
the interchange fee amount.

A simple yet general way of supporting actions of this type is to define a class
(which might be called ruleAction) and adding methods to it to represent the
actions to be taken. The rule evaluation function can then instantiate the class
and call the appropriate function.

In the case of the interchange fees, we would define an action called
addLedgerEntry, with the following parameters:

1.  The transfer ID for which the ledger entry is being created

2.  The ledger entry type to be used

3.  The currency in which the amount is denominated

4.  The amount of the fee

5.  The FSP ID of the credit party

6.  The FSP ID of the debit party

This might appear in the rule evaluation function as:

myAction.addLedgerEntry(transaction.transactionId,

transaction.transactionId,

"INTERCHANGE_FEE“,

transaction.currency,

transaction.amount\*0.006,

transaction.payer.fspId,

transaction.payee.fspId);

### Providing a generic framework for rule evaluation

Finally, we will need to provide a generic framework to trigger the evaluation
of rules. This should be an array of evaluation functions, which are triggered
when the status of a transfer changes to FULFILLED.

Process transfers for continuous gross settlement [EPIC]
-------------------------------------------------

When a settlement model specifies that an account is to be settled immediate gross, then each ledger entry which is of a type belonging to that scheme account should be settled immediately. This immediate settlement should have the following characteristics:

- It should be performed by a process which is forensically logged.
- It should be performed immediately, so that participants can check their current position against the transfers that comprise it.
- It should be aggregated to settlement window level, so that the checks which are currently performed on the overall status of a settlement window will continue to work.

The following sections describe the changes that are required to process transfers for accounts which are settled immediate gross.

### Database changes

The following changes are required to the database to implement transfer processing for continuous gross settlement

#### Addition of a new table to store changes in state

A new table should be added to store changes in state for ledger entries for individual transfers. The name of this table should be **transferParticipantStateChange**. Its column structure should be as follows:

1.  The unique key to the record. Column name: **transferParticipantStateChangeId**; type: unsigned BIGINT; not nullable; primary key
2.  The record in **TransferParticipant** whose state change this record marks. Column name: **transferParticipantId**; type: unsigned BIGINT; not nullable; foreign key to the **transferParticipantId** column of the **transferParticipant** table.
3.  The current state of the record in **transferParticipant** to which this state record refers. Column name: **settlementWindowStateId**; data type VARCHAR(50); not nullable; foreign key to the **settlementWindowStateId** column of the **settlementWindowState** table.
4.  An explanation of the state change. Column name: **reason**; type: VARCHAR(512); nullable.
5.  The date and time when the change was recorded. Column name: **createdDate**; type DATETIME; not nullable; default value **CURRENT_TIMESTAMP**.

#### Changes to the TransferParticipant table

No changes to the **transferParticipant** table are required. The relationship between records in the **transferParticipant** table and records in the **transferParticipantStateChange** table is managed via the **transferParticipantId** column in the **transferParticipantStateChange** table.

#### Changes to the settlementModel table

Existing implementations have functionality which automatically adjusts participants' positions when settlements are completed. In order to support backwards compatibility for these implementations, the settlement model will be expanded to allow automated position adjustment to be switched off and on.

This functionality will be managed through a new column in the **settlementModel** table. The name of the column will be **adjustPosition**. Its type will be TINYINT(1), and it should not be nullable. It should have a default value of zero (FALSE).

### Processing changes

The following changes to processing are required to support immediate settlement of gross ledger entries.


#### Generating entries in settlementContentAggregation

The following changes to the process that creates aggregation records in the **settlementContentAggregation** table are required.

1.  The aggregation process for a settlement window may not be performed if there are any records in the **transferParticipant** table which belong to the settlement window to be aggregated (as defined by joining the **transferParticipant** records to the matching records in the **transferFulfilment** table on the **transferId** column in both tables) and which do not have any corresponding entries in the **transferParticipantStateChange** table. This test is performed via a LEFT OUTER JOIN relationship between the **transferParticipantStateChange** table and the **transferParticipant** table, using the foregin key relation between the **transferParticipantId** columns in the **transferParticipant** table and the **transferParticipantStateChange** table.
2.  In the discussion which follows, the current status of a record in **transferParticipant** is defined as: the status of the record in the **transferParticipantStateChange** table which is keyed to the record in **transferParticipant** and which has the latest value in the **createdDate** column of the **transferParticipantStateChange** table.
3.  When there are no records in **transferParticipant** which meet the blocking criteria described in step 1 above, then all records belonging to the settlement window which has just been closed, and which currently have the status OPEN, should have their status set to CLOSED. This means: a record should be added to the **transferParticipantStateChange** table for the qualifying **transferParticipant** record whose status is CLOSED, and the **currentStateChangeId** column for the qualifying **transferParticipant** record should be set to point to the newly created record.
4.  When aggregating records for insertion into the **settlementContentAggregation** table, if all the records in the **transferParticipant** table which are to be aggregated into a single record in the **settlementContentAggregation** table have the same value in their **currentStateChangeId** column, then the value of the **currentStateId** column in the newly created record in the **settlementContentAggregation** table should be set as follows. The value of the **currentStateId** column in the newly created record in the **settlementContentAggregation** table should be set to the shared value in the constituent records from the **transferParticipant** table, except in the following case: if the shared value in the constituent records from the **transferParticipant** table is OPEN, then the value of the **currentStateId** column should be set to the value CLOSED.

#### Marking transfers as settled

The following additional processes are required in order to mark ledger entries which are settled immediate gross as having been settled.

##### Queueing transfers for settlement processing

When a transfer is completed, a record is generated in the **transferFulfilment** table. As part of the process that generates this record, the transfer should be placed on a Kafka stream for immediate settlement processing.

##### Processing settlements

A new service should be developed for processing gross (i.e. per-transfer) settlements. The requirements for this service are as follows:
1.  It should enable an auditor to verify that a given transfer has been settled using the agreed process
2.  It should allow transfer settlement to be recorded either internally, using an automatic process, or externally, exporting the information for each transfer to be settled to a configurable endpoint.
3.  It should not delay processing of the transfer itself

The characteristics of the service should be as follows:

1.  Pick a transfer from the Kafka stream holding transfers awaiting settlement processing. There is no requirement for sequence preservation, so this service can pick up multiple transfer entries if this would accelerate processing.
2.  For each record in the **transferParticipant** table which belongs to the transfer *and* whose **ledgerEntryType** column specifies a ledger entry type which belongs to a settlement model which is settled both GROSS and IMMEDIATE, the service should generate consecutive records in the **transferParticipantStateChange** table with the values: CLOSED, PENDING_SETTLEMENT, and SETTLED, in that order. The **currentStateChangeId** column for the record in the **transferParticipant** table should be set to point to the record in the **transferParticipantStateChange** table whose value is SETTLED.
3.  For each record in the **transferParticipant** table which belongs to the transfer *and* whose **ledgerEntryType** column specifies a ledger entry type which belongs to a settlement model which is settled both GROSS and IMMEDIATE *and* where the settlement model has an export endpoint configured, the process should export the information relating to the entry that is being settled to the endpoint specified in an agreed format. The format to be used, the means of specifying the endpoint to be addressed, and the process by which exports are generated and acknowledged, are not specified at this time.
4.  For all other records in the **transferParticipant** table which belong to the transfer, the service should generate a record in the **transferParticipantStateChange** table with a value of OPEN. The **currentStateChangeId** column for the record in the **transferParticipant** table should be set to point to the record in the **transferParticipantStateChange** table which was created.

#### Updating status values for net settlements

When the status is updated for a participant in a settlement which belongs to a settlement model which is not settled both GROSS and IMMEDIATE, then the constituent records for that participant in the settlement in the **transferParticipant** table need to be updated. The rules for this are:

1.  When the settlement is created, all the records in **transferParticipant** which belong to a transfer which belongs to a window which belongs to the settlement being created (i.e. which are contained in the inner join between **transferParticipant**, **transferfulfilment** (on **transferId**) and **settlementSettlementWindow** (on **settlementWindowId**) for the settlement Id which is being created) should have a record created in **settlementContentAggregationStateChange** with the **settlementWindowStateId** column set to PENDING_SETTLEMENT.
2.  When a participant's settlement status is updated to SETTLED in **settlementParticipantCurrency**, then all the records in **transferParticipant** for settlement windows which belong to that settlement, and whose participant and currency IDs match the participant and currency of the records in **settlementParticipantCurrency** which have been updated, should have their status set to SETTLED.

#### Gross settlement and position management

If gross settlement is enabled for a settlement model and that settlement model also has its **adjustPosition** flag set to TRUE, then an adjustment to both participants' positions should be made. This should be done in the following way:

1.  For each record in the **transferParticipant** table which is being settled, create a record in the **participantPositionChange** table with the following characteristics:
    a.  The **participantPositionId** column should be set to the value of the **participantPositionId** column in the **participantPosition** table for the record whose **participantCurrencyId** field is the same as that of the record in the **transferParticipant** table which has been settled.
    b.  The **transferStateChangeId** column should be set to the value of the **transferStateChangeId** column for the record in the **transferStateChange** table whose **transferId** column is the same as the value of the **transferId** column in the **transferParticipant** table for the record which is being settled, and which has the latet value in its **createdDate** column.
    c.  The **value** column should be set to the **amount** column in the **transferParticipant** table for the record which is being settled.
    d.  The **reservedValue** column should be set to zero.
    e.  The **createdDate** column should be set to the current date and time.
2.  The record in the **participantPosition** table whose **participantCurrencyId** field matches that of the record in the **transferParticipant** table which has been settled should have the **amount** column of the corresponding record in the **transferParticipant** table added to its **value** column.

Domain class diagram
====================

ERD
===

The following ERD describes the new data structures required to model settlements.

![](/mojaloop-technical-overview/central-settlements/assets/diagrams/Settlement_ERD.png)

Enumerations
------------

The following enumerations are required to support the new ERD:
```
DELETE FROM settlementGranularity;
INSERT INTO settlementGranularity (name)
VALUES ('GROSS'), ('NET');

DELETE FROM settlementInterchange;
INSERT INTO settlementInterchange (name)
VALUES ('BILATERAL'), ('MULTILATERAL');

DELETE FROM settlementDelay;
INSERT INTO settlementDelay(name)
VALUES ('IMMEDIATE'), ('DEFERRED');
```
